Command Line Guide (#1181)
great-expectations/great_expectations: docs/getting_started/command_line.rst

###################################
The Great Expectations Command Line
###################################

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

> After reading this guide, you will know:

Reviewer: I love it!

* How to create a Great Expectations project
* How to add new datasources
* How to add and edit expectation suites
* How to build and open Data Docs

The Great Expectations command line is organized using a **<NOUN> <VERB>** syntax.
This guide is organized by nouns (datasource, suite, docs) then verbs (new, list, edit, etc).

Basics
======

There are a few commands that are critical to your everyday usage of Great Expectations.

> In the order of how much you'll probably use them are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the order of how much you'll probably use them, they are:
```

This will run you through a very short interactive experience to
connect to your data, show you some sample expectations, and open Data Docs.

.. note::

  	You can install the python package by typing ``pip install great_expectations``, if you don't have it already.

.. code-block:: bash

    $ great_expectations init
      ...

You've got the entire Great Expectations directory structure now with all the code you need to get started.

great_expectations docs
==============================

``great_expectations docs build``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The ``great_expectations docs build`` command builds your Data Docs site.
You'll use this any time you want to view your expectations and validations in a web browser.

.. code-block:: bash

    $ great_expectations docs build
    Building Data Docs...
    The following Data Docs sites were built:
    - local_site:
       file:///Users/dickens/my_pipeline/great_expectations/uncommitted/data_docs/local_site/index.html

great_expectations suite
==============================

All command line operations for working with expectation suites are here.

``great_expectations suite list``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> The ``great_expectations suite new`` command creates expectation suites.

Reviewer: The doc has not mentioned suite new yet - maybe remove this sentence?

> Running ``great_expectations suite list`` by itself gives a list of available expectation suites:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Running ``great_expectations suite list`` gives a list of expectation suites in the project:
```

.. code-block:: bash

    $ great_expectations suite list
    3 expectation suites found:
      	customer_requests.warning
      	customer_requests.critical
      	churn_model_input

``great_expectations suite new``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Create a new expectation suite.
Just as writing SQL queries is far better with access to data, so are writing expectations.
These are best written interactively against some data.

> To this end, this command interactively helps you choose some data, creates a sample suite, and opens up Data Docs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To this end, this command interactively helps you choose some data, creates the suite, adds sample expectations to it, and opens up Data Docs.
```

.. important::

>     The sample suites generated **are not meant to be production suites** - they are examples only.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The sample expectations generated **are not meant to be production expectations** - they are examples only.
```

    Great Expectations will choose a couple of columns and generate expectations about them to demonstrate some examples of assertions you can make about your data.

.. code-block:: bash

    $ great_expectations suite new
    Enter the path (relative or absolute) of a data file
    : data/npi.csv

    Name the new expectation suite [npi.warning]:

    Great Expectations will choose a couple of columns and generate expectations about them
    to demonstrate some examples of assertions you can make about your data.

    Press Enter to continue
    :

>     Generating example Expectation Suite...

Reviewer: Seeing "example expectation suite" is a bit surprising when I am creating a suite that I named.

    Building Data Docs...
    The following Data Docs sites were built:
    - local_site:
       file:///Users/dickens/Desktop/great_expectations/uncommitted/data_docs/local_site/index.html
    A new Expectation suite 'npi.warning' was added to your project

To edit this suite you can click the **How to edit** button in Data Docs, or run ``great_expectations suite edit npi.warning``.

> This will generate a jupyter notebook and allow you to add, remove or adjust any expectations in the sample suite.

Reviewer: Why are we calling the suite "sample"?

    Enter the path (relative or absolute) of a data file
    : data/npi.csv

    Name the new expectation suite [npi.warning]: npi.warning
    A new Expectation suite 'npi.warning' was added to your project
    Because you requested an empty suite, we\'ll open a notebook for you now to edit it!
    If you wish to avoid this you can add the `--no-jupyter` flag.

    [I 14:55:15.992 NotebookApp] Serving notebooks from local directory: /Users/dickens/Desktop/great_expectations/uncommitted
    ... (jupyter opens)

``great_expectations suite new --empty --no-jupyter``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

If you prefer to disable Great Expectations from automatically opening the generated jupyter notebook, add the ``--no-jupyter`` flag.

.. code-block:: bash

    $ great_expectations suite new --empty --no-jupyter

    Enter the path (relative or absolute) of a data file
    : data/npi.csv

    Name the new expectation suite [npi.warning]: npi.warning
    A new Expectation suite 'npi.warning' was added to your project
    To continue editing this suite, run jupyter notebook /Users/taylor/Desktop/great_expectations/uncommitted/npi.warning.ipynb

> You can then run juypter yourself.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can then run jupyter yourself.
```

``great_expectations suite edit``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Edit an existing expectation suite.
Just as writing SQL queries is far better with access to data, so are authoring expectations.
These are best authored interactively against some data.

> This best done in a jupyter notebook.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is best done in a jupyter notebook.
```

.. note::
  BatchKwargs define what data to use during editing.

   - When suites are created through the CLI, the original batch_kwargs are stored in a piece of metadata called a citation.
   - The edit command uses the most recent batch_kwargs as a way to know what data should be used for the interactive editing experience.

>    - It is often desirable to edit the suite on a different chunk of data.

Reviewer: Should we use "batch" instead of "chunk" to keep the language consistent?

   - To do this you can edit the batch_kwargs in the generated notebook.

To this end, this command interactively helps you choose some data, generates a working jupyter notebook, and opens up that notebook in jupyter.

.. code-block:: bash

    $ great_expectations suite edit npi.warning
    [I 15:22:18.809 NotebookApp] Serving notebooks from local directory: /Users/dickens/Desktop/great_expectations/uncommitted
    ... (juypter runs)

.. important::

    Great Expectations generates working jupyter notebooks when you make new suites and edit existing ones.
    This saves you tons of time by avoiding all the necessary boilerplate.

    Because these notebooks can be generated at any time from the expectation suites (stored as JSON) you should **consider the notebooks to be entirely disposable artifacts**.

    They are put in your ``great_expectations/uncommitted`` directory and you can delete them at any time.

>     Because they can expose actual data, we stronly suggest leaving them in the ``uncommitted`` directory to avoid potential data leaks into source control.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Because they can expose actual data, we strognly suggest leaving them in the ``uncommitted`` directory to avoid potential data leaks into source control.
```

``great_expectations suite edit <SUITE_NAME> --no-jupyter``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

If you prefer to disable Great Expectations from automatically opening the generated jupyter notebook, add the ``--no-jupyter`` flag.

.. code-block:: bash

    $ great_expectations suite edit npi.warning --no-jupyter
    To continue editing this suite, run jupyter notebook /Users/dickens/Desktop/great_expectations/uncommitted/npi.warning.ipynb

> You can then run juypter yourself.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can then run jupyter yourself.
```

Reviewer 2: No need for "yourself"

great_expectations datasource
==============================

All command line operations for working with datasources are here.

> A datasource is a connection to data and a processing engine.

Reviewer: Add a link to features/datasource.html ?

``great_expectations datasource new``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This interactive command helps you connect to your data.

.. code-block:: bash

    $ great_expectations datasource list
    What data would you like Great Expectations to connect to?
    1. Files on a filesystem (for processing with Pandas or Spark)
    2. Relational database (SQL)
    : 1

    What are you processing your files with?
        1. Pandas
        2. PySpark
    : 1

    Enter the path (relative or absolute) of the root directory where the data files are stored.
    : data

    Give your new data source a short name.
     [data__dir]: npi_drops
    A new datasource 'npi_drops' was added to your project.

If you are using a database you will be guided through a series of prompts that collects and verifies connection details and credentials.

``great_expectations datasource profile``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

For details on profiling, see this :ref:`reference document<profiling_reference>`

.. caution:: Profiling is a beta feature and is not guaranteed to be stable. YMMV

Miscellaneous
======================

> * ``great_expectations project check`` checks your ``great_expectations/great_expectations.yml`` for validity. This is handy for version migrations.

Reviewer: "This is handy for version migration" - I know exactly what you mean, but I suspect a new external user would be confused. Maybe add a couple of sentences why and when I should consider running this command?
